In the Bible book of Job,
Jehovah described examples of his power
observable in the natural world.
Consider just a few.
Thunderhead clouds.
It is estimated that a single thunderstorm
can release more energy
than a 20-kiloton nuclear explosion.
We see some of that energy as lightning.
But lightning is only half the show.
Thunder is produced when lightning
heats up the surrounding air.
The superheated air rapidly expands,
causing a tremendous boom and crackling.
This is followed by rumbles,
as the air continues to vibrate.
Although usually associated
with destructive power,
lightning strikes can be very beneficial.
As lightning rips through the air,
nitrogen is converted
to a form that nourishes plants.
“Who . . . made a path
for the thunderous storm cloud?
“Can you send out lightning bolts?
Will they come and say to you,
‘Here we are!’”
Waves can start far out in the open sea.
They can begin as tiny ripples
formed by the wind.
As the wind continues to add energy,
the waves increase in size.
The stronger the wind and longer the gust,
the bigger the wave.
Hurricane winds can produce waves
of 100 feet or more in height.
Long after the wind stops,
the tremendous wave energy
continues to move.
It can travel great distances
from where it originated.
The amount of energy
contained in all the oceans
could theoretically power the entire globe
without air pollution.
“Who barricaded the sea behind doors
when it burst out from the womb,
“. . . when I established my limit for it
and put its bars and doors in place,
“and I said,
‘You may come this far, and no farther;
here is where your proud waves will stop’?”
The evening sky.
Job could see familiar constellations.
What controls the motion of the stars?
Only thousands of years later did scientists
learn more about these invisible laws.
Today, we understand that the motion
of stars is controlled by gravity.
Although they are in motion,
we perceive their positions as fixed
because they are so far away.
Thus, they can serve
as reliable navigational markers
down to this day.
Yet, despite increasing knowledge
about the force of gravity,
humans are still unable
to give a complete answer
to the questions God posed to Job.
“Do you know the laws
governing the heavens,
or can you impose
their authority on the earth?”
All around us,
daily reminders
of Jehovah’s great power can be seen.
What do you see?